Check if the property of type object has definition or not (#516)
Azure/azure-openapi-validator: docs/properties-type-object-no-definition.md

# PropertiesTypeObjectNoDefinition

## Category

ARM Error

## Applies to

ARM OpenAPI(swagger) specs

## Related ARM Guideline Code

- RPC-Policy-V1-03

## Output Message

Properties with type:object should have definition of a reference model

## Description

> If Properties with type:object dont have a reference model defined, then the allowed types can only be primitive data types instead of type:object

Reviewer: >Properties [](http://example.com/codeflow?start=3&length=10)

properties - lower case 'p'

> If Properties with type:object dont have a reference model defined, then the allowed types can only be primitive data types instead of type:object

Reviewer: >If Properties with type:object dont have a reference model defined [](http://example.com/codeflow?start=0&length=66)

You can simply say - "Properties with type:object that dont reference a model definition are not allowed. ARM doesnt allow generic type definitions as this leads to bad customer experience."

## CreatedAt

April 18, 2023

## LastModifiedAt

May 16, 2023

## How to fix the violation

The "type:object" model is not defined in the payload.

> Define the reference model of the object or change the "type" to "primitive-data-type".

Reviewer: or change the "type" to a primitive data type like string, nt, etc.

> The following would be invalid:

Reviewer 2: resolving, moved to https://github.com/Azure/azure-openapi-validator/pull/516/files#r1197138343

```json
...
"properties": {
    "info": {
        "type": "object",
    }

> }

Reviewer: Also provide an example for a valid usage

Reviewer 2: Add one with a reference model and one with primitive-data-type

# PropertiesTypeObjectNoDefinition

## Category

ARM Error

## Applies to

ARM OpenAPI(swagger) specs

## Related ARM Guideline Code

- RPC-Policy-V1-03

## Output Message

Properties with type:object must have definition of a reference model.

## Description

Properties with type:object that dont reference a model definition are not allowed. ARM doesnt allow generic type definitions as this leads to bad customer experience.

## CreatedAt

April 18, 2023

## LastModifiedAt

May 16, 2023

## How to fix the violation

The "type:object" model is not defined in the payload.
Define the reference model of the object or change the "type" to a primitive data type like string, int, etc.
The following would be invalid:

```json
...
"properties": {
    "type": "object",
    "info": {
        "type": "object",
    }
}
...
```

> The valid example of reference model:

Reviewer: >The [](http://example.com/codeflow?start=0&length=3)

A

```json
...
"properties": {
    "type": "object",
    "info": {
        "type": "object",
        "params": {
        "type": "string",

>         }

Reviewer: hmm, can u provide a valid swagger example here?

    }
}

> ...

Reviewer: pl apply consistent indentation to make this more readable.

```

> The valid example of primitve data type:

Reviewer: >The [](http://example.com/codeflow?start=0&length=3)

A

# PropertiesTypeObjectNoDefinition

## Category

ARM Error

## Applies to

ARM OpenAPI(swagger) specs

## Related ARM Guideline Code

- RPC-Policy-V1-03

## Output Message

Properties with type:object must have definition of a reference model.

## Description

> Properties with type:object that dont reference a model definition are not allowed. ARM doesnt allow generic type definitions as this leads to bad customer experience.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Properties with type:object that don't reference a model definition are not allowed. ARM doesn't allow generic type definitions as this leads to bad customer experience.
```

## CreatedAt

April 18, 2023

## LastModifiedAt

May 16, 2023

## How to fix the violation

The "type:object" model is not defined in the payload.
Define the reference model of the object or change the "type" to a primitive data type like string, int, etc.
The following would be invalid:

```json
...
{
  "definitions": {
    "type": "object",
    "properties": {
      "type": "object",
      "info": {
        "readOnly": true,
        "description": "The additional info type.",
        "type": "object"
      }
    }

>   }

Reviewer 2: Similar to comment on valid example

}
...
```

A valid example of reference model:

```json
...
{
  "definitions": {
    "type": "object",
    "properties": {
      "info": {
        "readOnly": true,
        "type": "object",
        "description": "The properties type.",
        "details": {
          "readOnly": true,
          "type": "string"
        }
      }
    }

>   }

Reviewer 2: Similar to comment on valid example

}
...
```

A valid example of primitve data type:

```json
...
{
  "definitions": {
    "type": "object",
    "properties": {
      "description": "The properties type.",
      "info": {
        "readOnly": true,
        "type": "string"
      }
    }
  }

> }

Reviewer 2: This should be an object under "definitions". E.g., if we name it "Resource":

```json
  "definitions": {
    "Resource": {
      "type": "object",
      "properties": {
        "description": "The properties type.",
        "info": {
          "readOnly": true,
          "type": "string"
        }
      }
    }
  }
```
